= Tips and Snips =

Vimwiki cannot be all things to all users so here are some tips and code
snippets you may find useful for customizing Vimwiki to your liking.

== Custom folding ==

Vimwiki has simple folding folding methods built in but lets you easily
customize folds with the `g:vimwiki_folding` option. For example, if you prefer
that the last blank line before a heading not get folded, add this to your
`.vimrc` file:

`let g:vimwiki_folding = 'custom'`

Then add the following to the `ftplugin/vimwiki.vim` plugin in your `.vim`
configuration folder (create this file if it doesn't already exist):

{{{vim
let l:vimwiki_fold_blank_lines = 0  " set to 1 to fold blank lines
let l:vimwiki_header_type = '#'     " set to '=' for wiki syntax
setlocal foldlevel=1
setlocal foldenable
setlocal foldmethod=expr
setlocal foldexpr=Fold(v:lnum)

 function! Fold(lnum)
   let fold_level = strlen(matchstr(getline(a:lnum), '^' . l:vimwiki_header_type . '\+'))
   if (fold_level)
     return '>' . fold_level  " start a fold level
   endif
   if getline(a:lnum) =~? '\v^\s*$'
     if (strlen(matchstr(getline(a:lnum + 1), '^' . l:vimwiki_header_type . '\+')) > 0 && !g:vimwiki_fold_blank_lines)
       return '-1' " don't fold last blank line before header
     endif
   endif
   return '=' " return previous fold level
 endfunction
}}}

== Encrypting Vimwiki pages ==

If you want to encrypt singe pages of your wiki you can use [[https://github.com/jamessan/vim-gnupg|vim gnupg]] in
conjunction with vimwiki. Add the following to your `vimrc`:

{{{vim
let g:GPGFilePattern = '*.\(gpg\|asc\|pgp\)\(.wiki\)\='
}}}

Then you can create a link to a page in the following form: `[[link.asc]]`, the
resulting file "link.asc.wiki" will be transparently encrypted by vim-gnupg.
vim-gnupg will ask you to choose a key and gpg-agent will ask you to unlock the
chosen key.

Note: If you use a different file-extension for your wikipages make sure to
change the code above accordingly.

== Got Other Great Ideas You'd Like to Share? ==

If you have other snippets you find useful, please share them here on the wiki.
